Welcome back.
Let's go over the solution to this flag application.
So I want to start by looking in the re-act developer tools to see what the structure of that looks
like.
Now at the top level of course we have an app component inside of that.
At first there's the header and the header is just the markup.
We put a background image of that world and then say guess the flag.
So not much going on there.
The majority of the logic is in this country game component
and inside of there there's a flag question component and the country game itself doesn't really do
much visually.
So what's the point of having these two different components.
Well the country game is the one responsible for getting the data from our API and the flag question
doesn't make any API requests.
It just receives data as props from the country game.
Now the flag question still has some state.
It keeps track of things like what your selection is for the four possible answers.
It also shows whether or not you got the question correct or incorrect but the distinction there is
again this own state about what you got back from the API.
And this one does not.
Now inside of flag question there is a flag choice and the flag choices you can see is just the form
there that gives you the four choices.
Once I make a choice I know Germany is wrong it will say incorrect answer and the correct answer being
Norway.
Now if you look in this flag question the component inside is now changed to a flag answer before it
was a flag choice.
Now its a flag answer and this flag question component.
Does the logic to figure out whether or not it should show you the choices or the answers depending
on what the state of the application is right now.
Now lets go over the code.
First we'll start with the app the app component and like we mentioned before it's a header with not
much going on in the country game inside of that.
So let's look at the country.
Now this is where the interesting lifecycle events happen.
So when we care about here is in component did mount
in our constructor we've got some state about first of all the countries.
This is the data that we'll get back from the API request.
And then secondly the options for each question.
Now there's a reason we want to keep the options here and that's because it's easier for the game to
figure out which one is correct or incorrect based on the user selection
OK.
Let's look at component in Mt.
So make a get request to this your L.D. you're able to get all the country information just like normal
we're converting it to J-Zone and then from here we do something a little interesting we get a random
country out of the country's array.
So we're just picking a random index from the array length.
And then we're passing that random index into a function called Get options which gives us our four
options for our question.
Let's look at that function.
So get options we'll take our correct option and all the countries it will loop through and then it
will generate 4 random options.
Now the first option will always be our correct option but the end will shuffle it.
So somewhere in the group of four answers we'll have the correct answer.
Also it's important to notice here we're only keeping track of the index of the correct answer in the
index of our options.
We're not actually saving the whole object.
So this array that we're shuffling at the end are just numbers that represent four indices into our
country's array.
And one of them is the correct answer.
Now once we have four options and we have the correct option we'll set the state so the state that we
care about is all the countries data from the API are correct option currently are for options which
include the correct option and then a question state value.
So one of the questions States
so question can be in one of three states it's either being asked it's wrong or it's correct and we
saw this pattern Similarly in the memory game.
I tend to make objects like this when I know that the state of something in my application can take
on more than two values if it's not just a boolean if I have more options besides just true or false
so we want to start out our questions day in asking state
now in render method we're going to have a couple of things that we need to render.
So first of all we always want a sane default value until we get the results of our API requests.
So at first countries will be undefined.
And while countries undefined We want to say loading just so the user sees something on the page.
Now once we have the correct option we know that the countries have been defined and the first thing
we're doing here is we're getting the flag image the SVGA from the data and then the name of the country
for the correct option.
Next we're mapping over all the options and getting out the name and also the idea of that option.
So remember this options array starts out as just IDs and we're turning into an object with IDS and
names.
After that we'll change the output from what was default to a loading div into a flag question and the
flag question takes a few props here.
So the first is our answer text.
This is the string that should be displayed for the correct answer.
The second is on guess.
So this is the callback function that will get called when the user clicks on guess on next is a function
that we'll get called when the user clicks next after they've guessed.
Options are four options.
That is the array that we just created.
Of objects with IDS and names.
The question state is the state we saw earlier.
So it all started out as a question.
We're asking a question and then we'll transition to either correct or incorrect.
And finally the flag is just a URL for the flag image that we want to show.
Now let's check out how flag question works.
The only state in this component is the choice for the user the the option that the user has clicked
on.
The majority of the logic is in render so will map over the options.
And if the state is in question then will show the flag choices component.
And if it is not in a question state will show the answer and depending on what the current state is
the answer is either correct or incorrect.
Right.
The question state if it is equal to correct answer then this is true if it is not equal the correct
answer is false.
The other important thing going on here is that we have two callback functions that were passing the
flag choice and that is handled change and handle submit.
So for handle change it's implemented right here and we're just setting state for wherever these are
choices now handle submit is invoking on guess which has passed in from the parent component the country
game.
Let's go look at the flag choice component.
Now this computer is a stateless functional component and all it is rendering is the four options.
And then a button to say guess.
So fairly simple.
We're mapping over those four inputs and we're creating some GSX with input tag wrapped in a label and
notice this check property checked is either true or false.
And whereas that being set well back in the flag question we're mapping over our options.
And if the user choice is equals that option ID then checked is true.
Otherwise it's false.
In fact there's a silly bit of code here.
We don't even need this ternary the boolean expression triple equals is good enough.
Lastly let's look at the flag answer component.
And that's a pretty simple one.
It's basically correct or incorrect depending on the props or passed in here.
And the answer is just the string that represents the correct answer.
And finally we've got an on next which is coming all the way from our country game components.
Let's take a look at that function
so on next is this next question and what it does is it gets the countries out of state gets a new correct
option a new set of options including that correct option and then sets the state again with that new
correct option and new questions state of question.
So that's all for this one.
And congratulations on making it this far.
Next up we're going to talk about the re-act router.